# pgweb-testing-harness
This is the official project repository for the PostgreSQL Website Testing Harness Suite.

## Overview

The PGWeb Testing Harness is a set of tests written for the official PostgreSQL website codebase which can be found [here](https://git.postgresql.org/gitweb/?p=pgweb.git;a=summary).
The suite utilizes GitHub Actions to run all the tests and generate a log file which can be used to check for bugs in the parts of the codebase covered by the tests.
The tests are divided into the following categories:

- Functional Tests
  - Tests for all forms present on the website.
  - Tests for Documentation loading and rendering processes.
- Accessibility Tests
- Miscellaneous Tests

**Note** :- _Functional Tests have been completed. The other tests are remaining as of now and will be completed in the next few weeks._

## Contributing
To contribute to this project kindly follow the following rules:
- All tests files should be in the format **tests_*.py**
- New Tests should be added via a new branch with the name in format <test_type>/<test_name> where test type can be functional, accessibility and security.
- Kindly refrain from pushing any unwanted files and folders generated by your text editors and IDEs(for eg .idea/ .code/ etc..)

### Setting up the Development Environment

The testing suite can also be run locally. To do so you need the following prerequisites:
- **act** - CLI Tool GitHub Actions Emulation. Installation source can be found [here](https://github.com/nektos/act).
- **Docker** - Required by act to build containers.Installation source can be found [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

After you fork and clone the repository kindly install all the required packages using

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

**_We suggest that you do so in a virtual environment to avoid any unnecessary conflicts._**

To run the tests use:

`act -j run-tests`

Once these prerequisites have been satisfied you can follow the contribution instructions given above and write your tests. Be sure to add the  _fixture_teardown() function in the beginning of your tests to avoid unnecessary errors due to Django.

If you are adding new tests kindly add them in the following format: **src/[category]/tests_*.py**.

If you want to add any utility functions kindly add them to **src/utils/*.py**
## contribution guidelines
Contributing to PGWEB-TESTING-HARNESS
Thank you for considering contributing to PGWEB-TESTING-HARNESS!
Whether it's fixing a bug , proposing a new feature , or improving documentation, your contributions are greatly appreciated.

Code of Conduct
Please make sure to read and follow our Code of Conduct before contributing to the project.

Getting Started
Fork the repository:

Create a personal copy of the PGWEB-TESTING-HARNESS repository on Github.
You can do this by clicking the "Fork" button on the PGWEB-TESTING-HARNESS repository page.
Clone the repository locally:

After forking the repository, clone it locally on your computer so that you can work on the code and make changes.
git clone https://github.com/<YOUR-USERNAME>/PGWEB-TESTING-HARNESS.git
Create a new branch:

Before making any changes, create a new branch in your local repository.
This is done to ensure that your changes are isolated from the main branch and can be easily reviewed and merged later.
git checkout -b <branch-name>
Make changes:

Start making changes to the code, fixing bugs, adding new features, etc.
Push changes to the fork:

Once the changes have been made, push them to your fork on Github.
git add .
git commit -m "Description of changes"
git push origin <branch-name>
Submitting a Pull Request
Make sure your changes are well-documented and include relevant tests.

If you've added new functionality, include appropriate documentation.

Follow the coding conventions used in the project.

Before submitting your pull request, make sure the following items have been checked:

All tests pass and the build is successful.
Your changes do not produce any new warnings or errors.
Your changes have been thoroughly tested on different platforms and browsers.
Your changes do not break backward compatibility.
When you're ready, submit a pull request and include a descriptive title and a detailed description of your changes.

Additional Resources
Project documentation
Issue tracker
Thank you again for your interest in contributing to PGWEB-TESTING-HARNESS.

We look forward to working with you!

## code of conduct
Code Of Conduct-PGWEB-TESTING-HARNESS

Our Pledge
In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

Our Standards
Examples of behavior that contributes to a positive environment for our community include:

Demonstrating empathy and kindness toward other people
Being respectful of differing opinions, viewpoints, and experiences
Giving and gracefully accepting constructive feedback
Accepting responsibility and apologizing to those affected by our mistakes, and learning from the experience
Focusing on what is best not just for us as individuals, but for the overall community
Examples of unacceptable behavior include:

The use of sexualized language or imagery, and sexual attention or advances
Trolling, insulting or derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
Public or private harassment
Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or email address, without their explicit permission
Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting
Our Responsibilities
Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying and enforcing our standards of acceptable behavior and will take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behavior that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

Scope
This Code of Conduct applies within all community spaces, and also applies when an individual is officially representing the community in public spaces. Examples of representing our community include using an official e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline event.

Enforcement:
contact:
Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported to the community leaders responsible for enforcement at <>. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated promptly and fairly.

Attribution
This Code of Conduct is adapted from the Contributor Covenant, version 1.4, available at http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4
**Note**: While working on your local machine you might see certain errors and warnings related to pgweb and some other folders, kindly ignore them as these imports are later required in the CI/CD pipeline.


